specify optional integration with MicroProfile Context Propagation (#565)
eclipse/microprofile-fault-tolerance: spec/src/main/asciidoc/optional-integrations.asciidoc

//
// Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
// You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
// You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
//    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.
// Contributors:
// Ladislav Thon

[[optional-integrations]]

== Recommendations for Optional Integrations

=== Jakarta EE

This section describes the expected behaviors when the implementation runs in a Jakarta EE container.

==== `@Asynchronous`

Threads that are servicing `@Asynchronous` invocations should, for the duration of the invocation, have the correct security context and naming context associated.

=== MicroProfile Context Propagation

This section describes the expected behaviors when the implementation runs in an environment that provides implementation of MicroProfile Context Propagation.

> These behaviors are currently optional because the MicroProfile Context Propagation specification is not part of the MicroProfile Platform.

Reviewer: I will say:
These behaviours are only required if a runtime provides the implementation for both MicroProfile Fault Tolerance and MicroProfile Context Propagation Specification.

Author: Hi @rhusar, this is what we talked about over email. Wanna share your perspective?

// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.
// Contributors:
// Ladislav Thon

[[optional-integrations]]

== Recommendations for Optional Integrations

=== Jakarta EE

This section describes the expected behaviors when the implementation runs in a Jakarta EE container.

==== `@Asynchronous`

Threads that are servicing `@Asynchronous` invocations should, for the duration of the invocation, have the correct security context and naming context associated.

=== MicroProfile Context Propagation

This section describes the expected behaviors when the implementation runs in an environment that provides implementation of MicroProfile Context Propagation.
These behaviors are currently optional because the MicroProfile Context Propagation specification is not part of the MicroProfile Platform.

==== `@Asynchronous`

Implementations should use MicroProfile Context Propagation to propagate contexts to threads that are servicing `@Asynchronous` invocations.

> The decision which contexts are propagated and which are cleared is left to the MicroProfile Context Propagation implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deciding which contexts are propagated and which are cleared is left to the MicroProfile Context Propagation implementation.
```

[NOTE]
====

> MicroProfile Context Propagation doesn't define which contexts are propagated and which are cleared by default.
> This is left to implementations.
> However, there are configuration properties that you can use for this purpose.
> 
> This note is valid at least with MicroProfile Context Propagation version 1.0.2, latest at the time of writing.
> Future versions of MicroProfile Context Propagation might change.
> Such changes, however, won't affect this specification.
> MicroProfile Fault Tolerance shall continue recommending that context propagation is left to MicroProfile Context Propagation.

Reviewer 2: I think this note which outlines the current state of Context Propagation is important, but it's a bit confusing.

I think we could make it shorter and clearer that it's just a comment on the current state of MP Context Propagation.

```suggestion
As of version 1.0.2, MicroProfile Context Propagation doesn't define which contexts are propagated and which are cleared by default, this is left to implementations.

However, there are configuration properties that you can use to override the default setting.
```

Author: The original text looked quite similar, and then I expanded it to explain the relationship more explicitly. But I can see now how it's confusing (it even tries to predict the future). Gonna accept your solution, thanks!

====

If the environment that provides MicroProfile Context Propagation is itself a Jakarta EE container, the _Jakarta EE_ section above doesn't apply and context propagation is left entirely to MicroProfile Context Propagation.

[NOTE]
====
The _Asynchronous Usage_ chapter specifies that "context for `RequestScoped` must be active during the asynchronous method invocation".
When MicroProfile Context Propagation is used, this still applies.

> The difference is that the request context will be not only active, but also propagated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The difference is that the request context may be not only active, but also propagated.
```

Suggest changing "will" to "may" given that Context Propagation may be configured not to propagate the request context.

Author: I originally had "(or cleared, depending on Context Propagation configuration)" at the end of the sentence. For some reason, I thought it's better to remove it :-)
